README.md, before:

# The AI Model Starter Kit

The fastest way to get started with building apps using **any AI model**.

Call **any Foundry models** — GPT, DeepSeek, Grok, Llama, and more — using **stable OpenAI SDKs** and the **OpenAI Responses API**. Production grade, enterprise friendly and secure with **EntraID keyless authentication** — no API keys, and zero secrets to manage.

Includes working examples in **Python, TypeScript, C#, Java, and Go**.

```mermaid
block-beta
    columns 5
    sdkTitle["OpenAI SDKs (Stable)"]:5
    py["🐍 Python"] ts["📘 TypeScript"] cs["🟪 C#"] java["☕ Java"] go["🩵 Go"]
    space:5
    space:1 arrow["⚡ OpenAI Responses API"]:3 space:1
    space:1 auth["🔐 EntraID Keyless Auth · Zero Secrets"]:3 space:1
    space:5
    foundryTitle["Microsoft Foundry Models"]:5
    deepseek["DeepSeek R1"] grok["xAI Grok"] llama["Meta Llama"] msft["Microsoft Phi"] oai["OpenAI GPT"]

    py --> arrow
    ts --> arrow
    cs --> arrow
    java --> arrow
    go --> arrow
    arrow --> foundryTitle

    style sdkTitle fill:#1a1a2e,color:#e0e0ff,font-weight:bold,stroke:#6c63ff,stroke-width:2px
    style foundryTitle fill:#1a1a2e,color:#e0e0ff,font-weight:bold,stroke:#e94560,stroke-width:2px
    style arrow fill:#16213e,color:#ffd460,font-weight:bold,stroke:#ffd460,stroke-width:2px
    style auth fill:#0d3320,color:#4ade80,font-weight:bold,stroke:#22c55e,stroke-width:2px
    style py fill:#3572A5,color:#fff,stroke:#4a8cc7,stroke-width:1px
    style ts fill:#3178c6,color:#fff,stroke:#4a9ae0,stroke-width:1px
    style cs fill:#9b4dca,color:#fff,stroke:#b366e0,stroke-width:1px
    style java fill:#e76f00,color:#fff,stroke:#f09030,stroke-width:1px
    style go fill:#00acd7,color:#fff,stroke:#33c4e8,stroke-width:1px
    style deepseek fill:#2563eb,color:#fff,stroke:#5b8def,stroke-width:1px
    style grok fill:#1d9bf0,color:#fff,stroke:#4db8f5,stroke-width:1px
    style llama fill:#6366f1,color:#fff,stroke:#8b8df5,stroke-width:1px
    style msft fill:#e94560,color:#fff,stroke:#f06e84,stroke-width:1px
    style oai fill:#10a37f,color:#fff,stroke:#3dbf9a,stroke-width:1px
```

## Prerequisites

- [Azure Subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/azure-account)
- [Azure Developer CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/install-azd)
- [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
- One or more of: Python 3.9+, Node.js 18+, .NET 8+, Java 21+, Go 1.23+

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Login to Azure
az login
azd auth login

# 2. Deploy DeepSeek-R1-0528 to Microsoft Foundry
azd up
```

That's it! You now have a Microsoft Foundry account with a model deployed and ready to use.

## Next Steps

### Set up your environment

```powershell
# 1. Set the project endpoint environment variable
$env:AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT = azd env get-value 'AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT'

# 2. Assign yourself the Cognitive Services OpenAI User role
$userId = az ad signed-in-user show --query id -o tsv
$resourceId = "/subscriptions/$(az account show --query id -o tsv)/resourceGroups/rg-$(azd env get-value 'AZURE_ENV_NAME')/providers/Microsoft.CognitiveServices/accounts/$(azd env get-value 'AZURE_AI_FOUNDRY_NAME')"
az role assignment create --role "Cognitive Services OpenAI User" --assignee $userId --scope $resourceId
```

### Run an example

Each example calls both an **OpenAI model** (gpt-4.1-mini) and a **non-OpenAI model** (DeepSeek-R1-0528) using the Responses API.

**Python**
```bash
cd src/python
pip install -r requirements.txt
python responses_example.py
```

**TypeScript**
```bash
cd src/typescript
npm install
npx tsx responses_example.ts
```

**C#**
```bash
cd src/csharp
dotnet run
```

**Java** (requires Maven)
```bash
cd src/java
mvn -q compile exec:java
```

**Go**
```bash
cd src/go
go run .
```

### The pattern (every language)

All five examples follow the same pattern:

1. **Get an EntraID token** via `DefaultAzureCredential` (scoped to `https://ai.azure.com/.default`)
2. **Create a standard OpenAI client** with `base_url` = project endpoint + `/openai/v1`
3. **Pass `api-version`** as a query parameter (`2025-11-15-preview`)
4. **Call the Responses API** — works with any deployed model

### Python code sample

```python
import os
from azure.identity import DefaultAzureCredential
from openai import OpenAI

credential = DefaultAzureCredential()
token = credential.get_token("https://ai.azure.com/.default").token

endpoint = os.environ["AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT"]
client = OpenAI(
    base_url=endpoint.rstrip("/") + "/openai/v1",
    api_key=token,
    default_query={"api-version": "2025-11-15-preview"},
)

# Works with any Foundry model — OpenAI, DeepSeek, etc.
response = client.responses.create(
    model="gpt-4.1-mini",  # or "DeepSeek-R1-0528"
    input="Explain quantum computing in simple terms",
    max_output_tokens=1000,
)
print(response.output_text)
```

**Why the standard OpenAI SDK?**

The Foundry project endpoint is OpenAI-compatible. By appending `/openai/v1` and passing the `api-version` as a query parameter, you can use the standard `openai` library in any language — no `azure-ai-projects`, `AzureOpenAI`, or `Azure.AI.OpenAI` wrapper needed. This works for all model providers (OpenAI, DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, Microsoft, and more).

## What This Template Includes

- **Core Infrastructure**: Microsoft Foundry account + project with a model deployment
- **Optimal Configuration**: GlobalStandard SKU, flexible region and model selection
- **Secure Authentication**: EntraID (keyless) via `DefaultAzureCredential`
- **Multi-language examples**: Python, TypeScript, C#, Java, and Go — all using their standard OpenAI SDK
- **Complete Documentation**: Setup guide with troubleshooting tips

## What You Get

- **DeepSeek-R1-0528** (default) — High-quality reasoning model, no registration required
- **Flexible model deployment** — Deploy any Foundry model (OpenAI, DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, Microsoft, and more)
- **Microsoft Foundry project** — Full project workspace for your development team
- **Standard OpenAI SDKs** — Use each language's `openai` library directly, no Azure-specific wrappers
- **Responses API support** — Modern API, cleaner than Chat Completions
- **Keyless authentication** — Secure EntraID auth, no API keys to manage
- **Unique resource naming** — No conflicts with existing resources

## Template Structure

```
├── azure.yaml                 # azd configuration
├── infra/
│   ├── main.bicep             # Main deployment template (subscription-scoped)
│   ├── main.parameters.json   # Deployment parameters
│   └── foundry.bicep          # Microsoft Foundry account, project, and model deployment
├── scripts/
│   ├── list_models.py         # Utility: list models supporting the Responses API
│   └── requirements.txt       # Dependencies for scripts (control plane)
├── src/
│   ├── python/
│   │   ├── responses_example.py   # Python: openai + azure-identity
│   │   └── requirements.txt
│   ├── typescript/
│   │   ├── responses_example.ts   # TypeScript: openai + @azure/identity
│   │   ├── package.json
│   │   └── tsconfig.json
│   ├── csharp/
│   │   ├── Program.cs             # C#: OpenAI + Azure.Identity
│   │   └── FoundryModelsExample.csproj
│   ├── java/
│   │   ├── src/main/java/ResponsesExample.java  # Java: openai-java + azure-identity
│   │   └── pom.xml
│   └── go/
│       ├── main.go                # Go: openai-go + azidentity
│       └── go.mod
└── README.md
```

## Language-specific SDK dependencies

| Language | OpenAI SDK | Azure Identity |
|---|---|---|
| Python | `openai` | `azure-identity` |
| TypeScript | `openai` | `@azure/identity` |
| C# | `OpenAI` (NuGet) | `Azure.Identity` |
| Java | `com.openai:openai-java` | `com.azure:azure-identity` |
| Go | `github.com/openai/openai-go` | `github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity` |

## Configuration

Set any of these via `azd env set` before running `azd up`:

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `AZURE_MODEL_NAME` | No | `DeepSeek-R1-0528` | Model to deploy |
| `AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT` | No | `DeepSeek` | Model format (`DeepSeek`, `Microsoft`, `OpenAI`, etc.) |
| `AZURE_MODEL_VERSION` | No | *(latest)* | Specific model version |
| `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_NAME` | No | Same as model name | Custom deployment name |
| `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_NAME` | No | `GlobalStandard` | SKU tier |
| `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_CAPACITY` | No | `1` | Capacity (tokens-per-minute in thousands) |

### Example: DeepSeek-R1-0528 (Default)

```bash
azd up
```

### Example: gpt-4.1-mini (OpenAI)

```bash
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_NAME "gpt-4.1-mini"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT "OpenAI"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_VERSION "2025-04-14"
azd up
```

### Example: Phi-4

```bash
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_NAME "Phi-4"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT "Microsoft"
azd up
```

### Example: MAI-DS-R1

```bash
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_NAME "MAI-DS-R1"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT "Microsoft"
azd up
```

## Outputs

After `azd up`, available via `azd env get-values`:

| Output | Description |
|---|---|
| `AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP` | Resource group name |
| `AZURE_AI_FOUNDRY_NAME` | Microsoft Foundry account name |
| `AZURE_AI_FOUNDRY_ENDPOINT` | Account endpoint URL |
| `AZURE_AI_PROJECT_NAME` | Foundry project name |
| `AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT` | Project endpoint URL (use as `base_url` with `/openai/v1` suffix) |
| `AZURE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME` | Model deployment name |

## Common Commands

```bash
# Redeploy with changes
azd up

# Preview what would be deployed
azd provision --preview

# Debug deployment issues
azd up --debug

# Clean up everything
azd down --purge
```

## Alternative Regions

```bash
azd env set AZURE_LOCATION eastus2
azd up
```

## How Do I Find Which Foundry Models Support Responses and Where?

The `scripts/list_models.py` utility queries the ARM control plane to discover which models support the Responses API in your subscription, along with their available regions.

```bash
cd scripts
pip install -r requirements.txt

# List OpenAI models with explicit Responses API support
python list_models.py

# Show per-region breakdown for models not available everywhere
python list_models.py --locations

# List non-OpenAI models (DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, etc.)
python list_models.py --non-openai

# Combine flags
python list_models.py --non-openai --locations
```

> **Note:** The ARM control plane only tags OpenAI-format models with the `responses` capability. Non-OpenAI models (DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, Mistral, etc.) that support chat completion also work with the Responses API at runtime — use `--non-openai` to list those.

## Troubleshooting

**"DeploymentModelNotSupported"** — Some models can't be deployed via Bicep validation. Try a different model or deploy manually via Azure CLI: `az cognitiveservices account deployment create ...`.

**"Quota exceeded"** — Check your subscription's quota for the selected model in the target region.

**"Permission denied" / 401** — Assign yourself the `Cognitive Services OpenAI User` role on the Microsoft Foundry account.

**429 Rate limited** — Increase `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_CAPACITY` or try a different model with more available capacity.

**"api-version is required"** — Pass `api-version` as a query parameter when creating the OpenAI client. Each language example shows how to do this.

Need debug info? Run `azd up --debug` for detailed logs.

## Why This Template?

- **Minimal setup** — 2 commands instead of 20+
- **Any Foundry model** — Access OpenAI, DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, Microsoft, and more
- **Any language** — Python, TypeScript, C#, Java, and Go examples included
- **Modern API** — Uses the Responses API, not legacy Chat Completions
- **Standard SDKs** — Uses each language's OpenAI SDK directly, no Azure-specific wrappers
- **Production-ready** — GlobalStandard SKU, EntraID auth, proper naming
- **Secure by default** — Keyless authentication with Azure Identity
- **Easy cleanup** — Remove everything with `azd down --purge`

---

Powered by [Azure Developer CLI](https://aka.ms/azd) | Deploy any model on [Microsoft Foundry](https://ai.azure.com)

Commit message:

Rename list_models.py and show all models by default
- Rename to list_models_with_responses_api_support.py
- Default run now shows all models (OpenAI + non-OpenAI) with Responses API support
- --non-openai flag filters to non-OpenAI models only
- Remove --agents flag (default now covers all providers)
- Update README with new filename and usage

README.md, after:

# The AI Model Starter Kit

The fastest way to get started with building apps using **any AI model**.

Call **any Foundry models** — GPT, DeepSeek, Grok, Llama, and more — using **stable OpenAI SDKs** and the **OpenAI Responses API**. Production grade, enterprise friendly and secure with **EntraID keyless authentication** — no API keys, and zero secrets to manage.

Includes working examples in **Python, TypeScript, C#, Java, and Go**.

```mermaid
block-beta
    columns 5
    sdkTitle["OpenAI SDKs (Stable)"]:5
    py["🐍 Python"] ts["📘 TypeScript"] cs["🟪 C#"] java["☕ Java"] go["🩵 Go"]
    space:5
    space:1 arrow["⚡ OpenAI Responses API"]:3 space:1
    space:1 auth["🔐 EntraID Keyless Auth · Zero Secrets"]:3 space:1
    space:5
    foundryTitle["Microsoft Foundry Models"]:5
    deepseek["DeepSeek R1"] grok["xAI Grok"] llama["Meta Llama"] msft["Microsoft Phi"] oai["OpenAI GPT"]

    py --> arrow
    ts --> arrow
    cs --> arrow
    java --> arrow
    go --> arrow
    arrow --> foundryTitle

    style sdkTitle fill:#1a1a2e,color:#e0e0ff,font-weight:bold,stroke:#6c63ff,stroke-width:2px
    style foundryTitle fill:#1a1a2e,color:#e0e0ff,font-weight:bold,stroke:#e94560,stroke-width:2px
    style arrow fill:#16213e,color:#ffd460,font-weight:bold,stroke:#ffd460,stroke-width:2px
    style auth fill:#0d3320,color:#4ade80,font-weight:bold,stroke:#22c55e,stroke-width:2px
    style py fill:#3572A5,color:#fff,stroke:#4a8cc7,stroke-width:1px
    style ts fill:#3178c6,color:#fff,stroke:#4a9ae0,stroke-width:1px
    style cs fill:#9b4dca,color:#fff,stroke:#b366e0,stroke-width:1px
    style java fill:#e76f00,color:#fff,stroke:#f09030,stroke-width:1px
    style go fill:#00acd7,color:#fff,stroke:#33c4e8,stroke-width:1px
    style deepseek fill:#2563eb,color:#fff,stroke:#5b8def,stroke-width:1px
    style grok fill:#1d9bf0,color:#fff,stroke:#4db8f5,stroke-width:1px
    style llama fill:#6366f1,color:#fff,stroke:#8b8df5,stroke-width:1px
    style msft fill:#e94560,color:#fff,stroke:#f06e84,stroke-width:1px
    style oai fill:#10a37f,color:#fff,stroke:#3dbf9a,stroke-width:1px
```

## Prerequisites

- [Azure Subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/azure-account)
- [Azure Developer CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/install-azd)
- [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
- One or more of: Python 3.9+, Node.js 18+, .NET 8+, Java 21+, Go 1.23+

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Login to Azure
az login
azd auth login

# 2. Deploy DeepSeek-R1-0528 to Microsoft Foundry
azd up
```

That's it! You now have a Microsoft Foundry account with a model deployed and ready to use.

## Next Steps

### Set up your environment

```powershell
# 1. Set the project endpoint environment variable
$env:AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT = azd env get-value 'AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT'

# 2. Assign yourself the Cognitive Services OpenAI User role
$userId = az ad signed-in-user show --query id -o tsv
$resourceId = "/subscriptions/$(az account show --query id -o tsv)/resourceGroups/rg-$(azd env get-value 'AZURE_ENV_NAME')/providers/Microsoft.CognitiveServices/accounts/$(azd env get-value 'AZURE_AI_FOUNDRY_NAME')"
az role assignment create --role "Cognitive Services OpenAI User" --assignee $userId --scope $resourceId
```

### Run an example

Each example calls both an **OpenAI model** (gpt-4.1-mini) and a **non-OpenAI model** (DeepSeek-R1-0528) using the Responses API.

**Python**
```bash
cd src/python
pip install -r requirements.txt
python responses_example.py
```

**TypeScript**
```bash
cd src/typescript
npm install
npx tsx responses_example.ts
```

**C#**
```bash
cd src/csharp
dotnet run
```

**Java** (requires Maven)
```bash
cd src/java
mvn -q compile exec:java
```

**Go**
```bash
cd src/go
go run .
```

### The pattern (every language)

All five examples follow the same pattern:

1. **Get an EntraID token** via `DefaultAzureCredential` (scoped to `https://ai.azure.com/.default`)
2. **Create a standard OpenAI client** with `base_url` = project endpoint + `/openai/v1`
3. **Pass `api-version`** as a query parameter (`2025-11-15-preview`)
4. **Call the Responses API** — works with any deployed model

### Python code sample

```python
import os
from azure.identity import DefaultAzureCredential
from openai import OpenAI

credential = DefaultAzureCredential()
token = credential.get_token("https://ai.azure.com/.default").token

endpoint = os.environ["AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT"]
client = OpenAI(
    base_url=endpoint.rstrip("/") + "/openai/v1",
    api_key=token,
    default_query={"api-version": "2025-11-15-preview"},
)

# Works with any Foundry model — OpenAI, DeepSeek, etc.
response = client.responses.create(
    model="gpt-4.1-mini",  # or "DeepSeek-R1-0528"
    input="Explain quantum computing in simple terms",
    max_output_tokens=1000,
)
print(response.output_text)
```

**Why the standard OpenAI SDK?**

The Foundry project endpoint is OpenAI-compatible. By appending `/openai/v1` and passing the `api-version` as a query parameter, you can use the standard `openai` library in any language — no `azure-ai-projects`, `AzureOpenAI`, or `Azure.AI.OpenAI` wrapper needed. This works for all model providers (OpenAI, DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, Microsoft, and more).

## What This Template Includes

- **Core Infrastructure**: Microsoft Foundry account + project with a model deployment
- **Optimal Configuration**: GlobalStandard SKU, flexible region and model selection
- **Secure Authentication**: EntraID (keyless) via `DefaultAzureCredential`
- **Multi-language examples**: Python, TypeScript, C#, Java, and Go — all using their standard OpenAI SDK
- **Complete Documentation**: Setup guide with troubleshooting tips

## What You Get

- **DeepSeek-R1-0528** (default) — High-quality reasoning model, no registration required
- **Flexible model deployment** — Deploy any Foundry model (OpenAI, DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, Microsoft, and more)
- **Microsoft Foundry project** — Full project workspace for your development team
- **Standard OpenAI SDKs** — Use each language's `openai` library directly, no Azure-specific wrappers
- **Responses API support** — Modern API, cleaner than Chat Completions
- **Keyless authentication** — Secure EntraID auth, no API keys to manage
- **Unique resource naming** — No conflicts with existing resources

## Template Structure

```
├── azure.yaml                 # azd configuration
├── infra/
│   ├── main.bicep             # Main deployment template (subscription-scoped)
│   ├── main.parameters.json   # Deployment parameters
│   └── foundry.bicep          # Microsoft Foundry account, project, and model deployment
├── scripts/
│   ├── list_models_with_responses_api_support.py  # Utility: list models supporting the Responses API
│   └── requirements.txt       # Dependencies for scripts (control plane)
├── src/
│   ├── python/
│   │   ├── responses_example.py   # Python: openai + azure-identity
│   │   └── requirements.txt
│   ├── typescript/
│   │   ├── responses_example.ts   # TypeScript: openai + @azure/identity
│   │   ├── package.json
│   │   └── tsconfig.json
│   ├── csharp/
│   │   ├── Program.cs             # C#: OpenAI + Azure.Identity
│   │   └── FoundryModelsExample.csproj
│   ├── java/
│   │   ├── src/main/java/ResponsesExample.java  # Java: openai-java + azure-identity
│   │   └── pom.xml
│   └── go/
│       ├── main.go                # Go: openai-go + azidentity
│       └── go.mod
└── README.md
```

## Language-specific SDK dependencies

| Language | OpenAI SDK | Azure Identity |
|---|---|---|
| Python | `openai` | `azure-identity` |
| TypeScript | `openai` | `@azure/identity` |
| C# | `OpenAI` (NuGet) | `Azure.Identity` |
| Java | `com.openai:openai-java` | `com.azure:azure-identity` |
| Go | `github.com/openai/openai-go` | `github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity` |

## Configuration

Set any of these via `azd env set` before running `azd up`:

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `AZURE_MODEL_NAME` | No | `DeepSeek-R1-0528` | Model to deploy |
| `AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT` | No | `DeepSeek` | Model format (`DeepSeek`, `Microsoft`, `OpenAI`, etc.) |
| `AZURE_MODEL_VERSION` | No | *(latest)* | Specific model version |
| `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_NAME` | No | Same as model name | Custom deployment name |
| `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_NAME` | No | `GlobalStandard` | SKU tier |
| `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_CAPACITY` | No | `1` | Capacity (tokens-per-minute in thousands) |

### Example: DeepSeek-R1-0528 (Default)

```bash
azd up
```

### Example: gpt-4.1-mini (OpenAI)

```bash
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_NAME "gpt-4.1-mini"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT "OpenAI"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_VERSION "2025-04-14"
azd up
```

### Example: Phi-4

```bash
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_NAME "Phi-4"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT "Microsoft"
azd up
```

### Example: MAI-DS-R1

```bash
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_NAME "MAI-DS-R1"
azd env set AZURE_MODEL_FORMAT "Microsoft"
azd up
```

## Outputs

After `azd up`, available via `azd env get-values`:

| Output | Description |
|---|---|
| `AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP` | Resource group name |
| `AZURE_AI_FOUNDRY_NAME` | Microsoft Foundry account name |
| `AZURE_AI_FOUNDRY_ENDPOINT` | Account endpoint URL |
| `AZURE_AI_PROJECT_NAME` | Foundry project name |
| `AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT` | Project endpoint URL (use as `base_url` with `/openai/v1` suffix) |
| `AZURE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME` | Model deployment name |

## Common Commands

```bash
# Redeploy with changes
azd up

# Preview what would be deployed
azd provision --preview

# Debug deployment issues
azd up --debug

# Clean up everything
azd down --purge
```

## Alternative Regions

```bash
azd env set AZURE_LOCATION eastus2
azd up
```

## How Do I Find Which Foundry Models Support Responses and Where?

The `scripts/list_models_with_responses_api_support.py` utility queries the ARM control plane to discover which models support the Responses API in your subscription, along with their available regions.

```bash
cd scripts
pip install -r requirements.txt

# List all models with Responses API support (OpenAI + non-OpenAI)
python list_models_with_responses_api_support.py

# Show per-region breakdown for models not available everywhere
python list_models_with_responses_api_support.py --locations

# List only non-OpenAI models (DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, etc.)
python list_models_with_responses_api_support.py --non-openai

# Combine flags
python list_models_with_responses_api_support.py --non-openai --locations
```

> **Note:** The ARM control plane tags OpenAI-format models with `capabilities.responses`. For non-OpenAI models, `capabilities.agentsV2` is used as a proxy — models with this capability support the Responses API at runtime. The default run combines both into a single unified list.

## Troubleshooting

**"DeploymentModelNotSupported"** — Some models can't be deployed via Bicep validation. Try a different model or deploy manually via Azure CLI: `az cognitiveservices account deployment create ...`.

**"Quota exceeded"** — Check your subscription's quota for the selected model in the target region.

**"Permission denied" / 401** — Assign yourself the `Cognitive Services OpenAI User` role on the Microsoft Foundry account.

**429 Rate limited** — Increase `AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_CAPACITY` or try a different model with more available capacity.

**"api-version is required"** — Pass `api-version` as a query parameter when creating the OpenAI client. Each language example shows how to do this.

Need debug info? Run `azd up --debug` for detailed logs.

## Why This Template?

- **Minimal setup** — 2 commands instead of 20+
- **Any Foundry model** — Access OpenAI, DeepSeek, Meta, xAI, Microsoft, and more
- **Any language** — Python, TypeScript, C#, Java, and Go examples included
- **Modern API** — Uses the Responses API, not legacy Chat Completions
- **Standard SDKs** — Uses each language's OpenAI SDK directly, no Azure-specific wrappers
- **Production-ready** — GlobalStandard SKU, EntraID auth, proper naming
- **Secure by default** — Keyless authentication with Azure Identity
- **Easy cleanup** — Remove everything with `azd down --purge`

---

Powered by [Azure Developer CLI](https://aka.ms/azd) | Deploy any model on [Microsoft Foundry](https://ai.azure.com)
